---
layout: post
published: true
title: Gem Signing - X.509 vs OpenPGP
category: rants
---

Gem Signing - X.509 vs OpenPGP
==============================

This is a contentious topic.  It's right up there with Emacs vs Vim.
Kirk vs Picard.  Jesus vs Santa.  Etc.

Some people have been dismissive of rubygems-openpgp.  "Why not use
X.509?  That has native ruby libraries!  You don't need to rely on
gpg!"  And I'm ashamed to say I've been equally dismissive.  "Because
X.509 sucks!  It's broken!  Totally wrong for open source!"  And then a
third party will chime in, "Why are you arguing about technical
details?  It's all just RSA signatures in the end!"

I'm going to try to take a step back and articulate in concrete terms
why I don't think there will ever be a decent X.509 signing solution
for gems.  And why I think we should use OpenPGP even if it can't
immediately be used by all users.

I'll avoid the more arcane technical details of each standard, and I
hope not to flame too much.

State of the Union
------------------

Basic functionality do sign gems with X.509 was introduced in release
0.8.11 of rubygems, in July of 2005.  And 7-1/2 years later we
have... basic functionality to sign gems with X.509.  In theory this
can be used by anyone using rubygems.  In practice it's used by no one.

Central Thesis, in Terms Anyone Can Understand
----------------------------------------------

* An X.509 based system requires a complete **centralized** end-to-end
  authentication system to be in designed and implemented **before** it
  is useful to gem developers and users.

* An OpenPGP system allows gem developers and users to sign and verify
  in a useful way *immediately*.  Authentication systems can be added
  **after** the fact in a **decentralized** fashion.

X.509 is the cathedral, OpenPGP is the bazaar.

Why does X.509 Need the Authentication System First?
----------------------------------------------------

X.509 certificate chains start with a root Certificate Authority, may
have intermediate Certificate Authorities, that ultimately sign off on
developer's certificates.  They are strict tree structures.  Because
they are trees, each certificate can only have a single parent.

As in biology, the parent must exist before the child.  Without a
Certificate Authority system in place before hand, a developer is left
with no choice but to issue a self-signed certificate.  This
conveniently sidesteps the ability to reliably authenticate the
signature.  Hence those nasty browser notices when you go to a
[self-signed web page](https://web.monkeysphere.info/).

Why doesn't OpenPGP?
--------------------

OpenPGP's trust model is the Web of Trust.  A developer creates a
signing key.  After that, other key issuers can create signatures that
point to the keys they think are authentic.  Multiple issuers can say
they trust the same key.  The trust model is a directed graph.

These signatures are issued *after* key creation at any time by anyone
with or without involvement of the original developer.

Practical Implications
----------------------

### X.509

#### The Certificate Authority structure must be in place *before* developers can create their own certificates

A developer can't create their own certificate until the CA structure
is designed and implemented.  They need to wait for the system to be
in place first.  If there is no CA structure in place, the only
alternative they have is to issue a self-signed certificate,
essentially declaring themselves a mini-CA.  In addition to mostly
side-stepping the authentication issue, thousands of self-signed
certificates don't scale if a user actually tries to authenticate
these self-signed keys.

#### A Certificate Authority can't approve old packages

If a developer later wants to switch over to a newly formed CA, they
must generate new certificates signed by the CA and republish their
software.  At the same time, if a Certificate Authority wants to
authenticate an existing package, they need to convince the developer
to do all of the above.  There are currently 50,000+ gems on
rubygems.org that would need to retroactively be re-signed and
republished if a new CA was introduced.

#### Single point of failure

Since each certificate can only have a single parent, if any parent or
grandparent becomes invalid and revoked, the developer's certificate
immediately becomes invalid as well.  The certificate chain cannot be
followed.  In this event a developer needs to issue a new certificate
signed by a new CA and republish their software.  An existing package
can't be re-certified.

### OpenPGP

#### You can generate a usable key anytime you want

There is no need to wait for **the man** to build a CA framework and
setup signing keys.  Developers can make their keys and start using
them.  There is no penalty imposed by doing this.  A third party (or
multiple parties) can declare the key authentic after the fact.  This
can be done without having to republish the software and with or
without the cooperation of the developer.

#### Multiple trust paths can be established

Multiple trust paths can be established to a developer's key.  If one
trust path becomes compromised there may be alternate trust paths that
can be used.  If an end user doesn't like a particular trust path,
they can choose to ignore that and go with another.

#### Trees are subsets of directed graphs

You can implement a tree structure in a directed graph but not vice
versa.  And that's exactly what our Certificate Authority does.  It
models a CA-style tree on top the Web of Trust.

The problem with a volunteer X.509 solution
-------------------------------------------

X.509 has a chicken-and-egg problem:

1. The system isn't usable until the Certificate Authority is designed
and implemented.

1. The design and implementation of said Certificate Authority takes
serious time and effort.

1. This system needs a general consensus between the CA, gem
developers, and gem users to be useful.  It is difficult to achieve
when you have thousands of people with different goals and needs.

1. There's no guarantee that the system will be adopted, making the
time and effort to develop such a system high-risk.

And that's why I think we still don't have a usable signing mechanism
7-1/2 years after it was ostensibly possible for developers to sign
gems.  No one wants to spend a significant amount of time and energy
developing a solution in isolation that has no guarantee of being
used by or useful to the community.

OpenPGP-based systems don't have that problem
---------------------------------------------

1. A developer can start signing packages in a useful fashion with a
five minute time investment.

1. Various authentication systems can be implemented *after* there are
a significant number of signed gems in circulation and it's easier to
demonstrate their usefulness.

1. These systems can be as experimental as you want.  They don't
require anything near universal adoption.  They can be used in
parallel.  Niche systems can be useful to some users but not the
community at large.

People can implement systems incrementally, and get the out there
where they can be seen by the community.  They can iteratively work on
a system and interact with other interested people from the beginning.


So what's better for a loosely based confederation of thousands of open source developers?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### A system that:

* Is centralized?

* Requires up front design and implementation before it can be used
  by *anyone*?

* Is strictly hierarchical with a single point of failure?

* Requires republishing to establish a certificate chains on
  existing signed software?

### Or an system that:

* Is decentralized?

* Is immediately usable by developers?

* Is fault tolerant with multiple potential trust paths?

* Allows end users to pick-and choose their authentication systems?

* Allows various experimental authentication systems to fight-it-out
  in a Darwinian fashion?

* Allows certification to be performed after the fact without
  republishing software packages?

Answer: OpenPGP
---------------

So Start signing your gems.
