---
layout: post
published: false
title: CA Exploited by Uber-Hacker Havenwood!
---

CA Exploited by Uber-Hacker Havenwood!
======================================

On Feb-20-2013 at approximately 10:00 GMT a mysterious user known only
as [Havenwood](https://github.com/havenwood) was able to bypass
several layers of security and receive a certification signature from
our signing key without proper authentication.

He is believed to be a Caucasian male, between fifteen to fifty years
old, four to six feet high, weighing between one and three hundred
pounds.  If you have any information about his whereabouts, please
contact us.  If you encounter him in person, contact your local
authorities.  Do not attempt to stop him yourself.  He is rumored to
be armed and extremely dangerous.

Actually, That's Not Quite What Happened
----------------------------------------

Havenwood submitted an application for certification.  Because of a
bug in the code, we did not realize that he never actually confirmed
his account, which meant that he never demonstrated that he actually
controlled the submitted private key.  In spite of this, we signed off
on his key.

So What Now?
------------

Once the problem was discovered, we were able to issue a revocation of
the original signature and send it off to the keyservers.  For this
revocation to take effect, users would need to pull the revocation
down from the keyserver network.

To encourage this, we've setup a rotating expiration date on our
signing key.  On May 17th, 2013 the signing key will expire.  At that
time we will bump up the expiration date and publish this
information.

If a user hasn't been keeping their keyring up-to-date, verification
of gems signed by us would now fail.  They would need to refresh their
keyring by running:

    gpg --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --refresh-keys

Performing this operation would also grab our revocation of our
signature against Havenwood's key.  Any attempt to install software
signed by this key would now fail.

And that's how our revocation system works
------------------------------------------

Thanks for being a good sport Havenwood.
